=head1  NAME


	lsat - a security auditing tool


=head1  SYNOPSIS


B<lsat>  [OPTION]


=head1  DESCRIPTION

	Linux Security Auditing Tool (LSAT) is a post install security
	auditing tool. It is modular in design, so new features can be 
	added quickly. It checks inetd entries and scans for unneeded 
	RPM packages. It is being expanded to work with Linux 
	distributions other than Red Hat, and checks for kernel versions.

	Output is in lsat.out. -w will give output in html format.
	On subsequent runs, the previous output is in lsat.old.


=head1 OPTIONS

-a
	Show LSAT advanced help

-d 
        diff current and old md5 runs, output in lsatmd5.diff

-h  
	Show LSAT help

-m <distribution>
	Force a specific distribution test
	Names are: redhat, debian, solaris, gentoo, macosx, slackware, ubuntu, linuxmint

-o <filename>
	Output filename, default is last.out

-r
	Check rpm integrity. RedHat or Mandrake only.

-s
	Be silent. No output at all.

-x <filename>
        Filename is a text file consisting of modules to
        exclude from being run. This should be a comma,
        tab or newline delimited file, with just the name(s)
        below one wishes to exclude.
        Module names (with a small description) are:

        bpass           check for bootloader passwd
        cfg             check runlevel daemons (redhat) 
		disk 			check for disk space and mount points
        dotfiles        check for dotfiles
        files           check for sticky bits, etc
        forward         check for network forwarding
		ftp				check for common ftp misconfigurations
        ftpusers        check ftpusers file for bad entries
 		hostfiles		check hosts.allow and hosts.deny files
        inetd           check for unneeded services
        inittab         check runlevel, etc.
        ipv4            check for other things in ipv4
        issue           check issue banner
        kbd             check kbd/login perms
        limits          check limits file
        logging         check for enough logging
        md5             perform md5 of all files on sys
        modules         check for loadable kern mod.
        net             check network
        open            check open files
		passtime		check for password expiration info on users
        passwd          check passwd file for bad entries
        perms           check permissions on files
        pkgs            check for unwanted packages
		pkgsupdate		check for available software updates
        promisc         are we in promisc mode?
        rc              check for unwanted rc files
        rpm             perform rpm integrity check
        securetty       check secure tty
		services		(try to) list all services that start at boot
        set             check for SUID files
        ssh             check ssh config
        startx          check for tcp listening in X
        umask           check default umask
        write           check world read/write files
        www             output in html

-v
	Be verbose about it.

-w
    Output file is in html format.

=head1 MODULES

	Current modules are:

	checkbpass
	checkcfg
	checkdisk
	checkdotfiles
	checkfiles
	checkftp
	checkftpusers
	checkhostsfiles
	checkinetd
	checkinittab
	checkipv4
	checkissue
	checkkbd
	checklimits
	checklistening
	checklogging
	checkmd5
	checkmodules
	checknet
	checknetforward
	checknetp
	checkopenfiles
	checkpasstime
	checkpasswd
	checkpkgs
	checkpkgupdate
	checkrc
	checkrcperms
	checkrpm
	checksecuretty
	checkservices
	checkset
	checkssh
	checkumask
	checkwrite
	checkwww
	checkx
	

	A breif description is included in each module. Writing a module is fairly easy and straightforward. 
	See README.modules for more information.

=head1 LICENSE

	This software is licensed under the GNU/GPL, please see 
	http://www.gnu.org for more details.

=head1 BUGS

	Doesn't correct the problems that it discovers (yet).
	Running on Solaris is not fully functional.

=head1 AUTHOR

	Robert Minvielle, Ph.D. <number9 at www dot dimlight dot org>
	If that fails, <triode at users dot sourceforge dot net>
